hey if you've been wandering for ages
what the most common lie is whether
penguins have knees or how big the
world's largest pizza is you're in the
right place volcanoes can produce
lightning during eruptions there might
be too much friction between ash
particles static electricity builds up
and creates lightning bolts the longest
time a person spent without sleep was 11
and a half days or 276 hours the most
common phobias are acrophobia the fear
of heights
Eero phobia the fear of flying
hydrophobia the fear of water autophobia
the fear of being alone and so on as for
more unique ones there's own ama phobia
the fear of names
Neph o phobia the fear of clouds Nemo
phobia the fear of memories and many
others like choco phobia the fear of
chocolate now I made that one up more
than 90 percent of drivers confess they
regularly sing behind the wheel the
world's largest gummy bear is produced
in the USA it's half as heavy as the
average domestic cat and is as big as
1,400 regular-sized gummy bears it takes
four seconds for silence to become
awkward like this oh I can't stand it in
Antarctica
there's a blood-red waterfall that
stains the Taylor glacier its water is
filled with iron oxide which is
basically good old rust that's what
creates the eerie red hue the biggest
yo-yo ever took a year and a half to
build and weighed more than an adult
male hippo and reach 13 feet in diameter
dogs can smell separately with each
nostril the most remote island in the
world is bhuva Thailand discovered in
1739 more than 1,600 miles away from the
nearest inhabited place it even got to
the Guinness Book of World Records the
rainbow eucalyptus might be the most
colorful tree on earth as it ages the
bark peels off and changes its color
the youngest bark is bright green then
it turns purple and red the oldest bar
is brown it doesn't matter for your
brain in what order the letters in a
word are you can read any messed up text
if the first and last letters of the
words stay in the right place cashews
shaped like boxing gloves are collected
from the bottom of cashew apples that
grow on cashew trees fairy circles in
the Namib Desert are millions of
circular patches of land where nothing
grows one of the theories explaining
this phenomenon claims that's how plants
compete for scarce water it takes from
18 to 254 days for a person to form a
new habit and 66 days for this behavior
to become automatic miniatur wunderland
in hamburg is the largest model train
set in the world it's as big as a hockey
ring and as 42 planes
9250 cars 1040 trains and 260,000
figurines the whole thing costs about 23
million dollars to build the biggest
number of toothpicks in a beard is 350
it took the current record-holder 3
hours and 13 minutes to stick the
toothpicks into his beard the world's
coldest capital city is uhlan Betar in
mongolia the average annual temperature
there is 29 point seven degrees
Fahrenheit almost eighty percent of the
average car is recyclable automobile
recycling is one of the largest
industries in some countries bismuth is
a brittle shiny white metal with a pink
tinge if you melt it and then let it
cool really slowly it'll form iridescent
cubic crystals fish do sleep and some
even have insomnia which is actually a
big problem for a fish in Chestnut Ridge
Park in western New York there's a small
waterfall called eternal flame Falls
natural gas escapes from a grotto at the
waterfalls base this gas can be lit to
produce a tiny flame that's burning
behind the curtain of water fear can
make you feel good but only if there's
no real danger that's why so many people
are
crazy about scary movies penguins do
have needs but their knee joints are
shifted up higher where the hip normally
is the hip joints in turn are way back
near the tail in the winter the water of
Lake Abraham in Canada gets filled with
white orbs that look like snowballs
these pretty ice bubbles are actually
super dangerous pockets of flammable
methane gas the chameleons tongue is
nearly twice as long it's its body it
would be a tongue of 10 to 12 feet long
in humans Scotland has more than 400
words to describe snow the most common
lie all over the world is the phrase I'm
fine fire rainbows appear high in the
sky when the sun shining through a
certain kind of ice cloud formation this
phenomenon has nothing to do with rain
or fire the saltiest water body in the
world is the get al pond in ethiopia
this small lake contains 43 percent of
salt a glass ball bounces higher than a
rubber ball of the same size if it
doesn't break at the very beginning of
course the biggest number of tricks
performed by a pig in one minute is 13
what a ham the mimic octopus can not
only change its color but also take the
shapes of other animals for example
flounders sea snakes or lionfish in the
deserts of California there are stones
that move on their own some of these
sailing rocks are as heavy as 700 pounds
most of them move in straight lines
while others create oval turns if you've
already invented a plan B your plan a is
less likely to work rhino horns are made
of keratin it's the same protein
substance that makes up human nails and
hair the longest single word place name
on the planet is 85 letters long it's
the name of a 1000 foot tall Hill in New
Zealand now I'm not even going to try to
save that one I have
renounce a phobia Moroccan gulps climb
trees to snack on their favorite Argan
fruit the animals can get as high as 26
to 30 feet spaghetto is how a single
strand of spaghetti is called in Italy
you'll remember a topic better if you've
been tested on it
the petrifying lake in Tanzania can heat
up to 140 degrees Fahrenheit
the water in it is so acid that its pH
level can sometimes reach 12 which is as
high as that of ammonia few animal
species can live in such an environment
paradoxically the lake is a favourite
breeding place for a flock of flamingos
closing your eyes helps to recall an
event in more detail there's a small
force in poling where almost 400 pine
trees grow with a 90 degree bend at
their base the highest a person jumped
on a pogo stick was just over 11 feet
it's almost as high as two people
standing on top of each other the
Magnetic Hill in India is a small uphill
stretch of road that tends to pull cars
upward if you turn your engine off and
let your vehicle stand on neutral it'll
start to move on its own at a speed of
up to 12 miles per hour the fastest land
animal the cheetah can't war instead it
makes sounds similar to those produced
by house cats only for feline species
can roar the lion leopard Jaguar and
tiger
despite their name peanuts aren't real
nuts they're legumes that belong to the
same plant family as beans peas soya and
lentils baby carrots are nothing else
but chopped up normal carrots ow the
wind sometimes catches small droplets of
lava from active volcanoes these
droplets get carried miles away from the
vent and stretch into super thin glass
wire
they're called hair lava some strands
can be as long as six feet people are
calmer and more productive in Bluegreen
rooms
cats love boxes because they make great
hiding places no one can sneak up on
them from behind and cats can observe
their surroundings without being seen
the unicorn is the national animal of
Scotland
even though well there are many oops
forgot the spoiler alert on that one
only about 25% of the Sahara Desert is
sand the rest of the area is covered
with gravel and littered with mountains
and Oasis a group of ferrets is known as
a business gee I think I had a job there
once kaya Ijen volcano in Indonesia
emits hot and flammable sulfurous gases
bursting through the rocky surface they
come into contact with oxygen it creates
flames that can shoot up to 16 feet in
the air and look electric blue it's
impossible to sneeze in your sleep your
brain simply shuts down this reflects
the more alternatives people have the
more difficult it is for them to choose
something this phenomenon is called the
paradox of choice the most densely
populated island in the world is Santa
Cruz del s latte off the coast of
Colombia the size of two soccer fields
this artificial island has ten
neighbourhoods and four main streets
around 500 people live in 155 houses
there octopuses lay up to 56,000 eggs at
a time when baby octopuses get born they
aren't bigger than rice grains the
world's biggest pizza was two-and-a-half
times as big as a basketball court had
its own name octavia and was 100%
gluten-free fire tornadoes look like
spinning columns of flames they most
often occur when the wind twists an
already burning fire particularly huge
fire whirls can be
1,000 feet tall too much stress can
change brain cells the connections
between them and even the way they work
ostriches don't hide their heads in the
sand but they do dig holes in the ground
and use them as nests after laying eggs
a bird regularly sticks its head into
the hole to turn them blue whales eat
almost half a million calories at a time
that's 240 times the energy they need to
gather krill into their mouths when the
first windshield wipers were invented
drivers considered them an unnecessary
distraction they realized the invention
was a game changer only sometime later
the largest gathering of people wearing
a cobra hats was 1912 the event took
place in Australia the human brain is
more likely to remember bad things than
good ones as why it takes five positive
events to outweigh one negative Lake
Hillier in Australia is bubblegum pink
its waters are unlikely to be dangerous
for people because they're swarming with
fish still tourists aren't allowed in
the water the lakes unusual colour is
probably caused by some bacteria algae
or chemical reactions even in inanimate
objects we tend to look for human faces
that can explain the faces people see on
Mars and on the moon the average driver
spends five months of their life waiting
in their car at red lights flamingos
turn pink because they're embarrassed
now they eat a particular kind of
blue-green algae and brine shrimp this
diet contains a natural pink dye that
affects the birds coloring the Greenland
shark is the longest living vertebrate
known to exist its average lifespan is
270 to 300 years but some sharks live as
long as 400 years
if you decided to count all nerve cells
in your brain it would take you up to
3,000 years Antarctica is the driest and
most freezing continent on the planet
that's where the coldest temperature was
ever recorded it was minus 128 degrees
Fahrenheit the driest place on earth is
also and Antarctica it's Dry Valleys the
place hasn't seen snow or rain for
millions of years in Costa Rica you can
spend a night in a two bedroom luxury
guest house made out of an upcycled 1965
Boeing 727 there's indeed such a thing
as a desert rose it grows in super dry
places that sometimes get flooded the
environment switches from dry to wet and
back which allows gypsum crystals to
trap sand grains and form flat petals
when opossums play possum
they don't pretend these animals can
indeed pass out from extreme fear the
human brain doesn't consider long-term
deadlines important people also prefer
urgent but insignificant tasks because
they know for sure they'll be able to
complete them a tiny amount of stress
helps you to remember things better but
too much stress hinders your memories
the largest underwater human pyramid was
made in Thailand and consisted of 62
people oh yeah I'd want to be on the
bottom of that the largest snake in the
world is the green and a condom this
reptile can grow up to 18 feet which is
three times as long as a bed the most
populated city in the world is Tokyo
more than 37 million people live there
Catatumbo lightning is a unique
phenomenon that occurs up to 260 days
per year in Venezuela you can see more
lightning flashes over the surface of
Lake Maracaibo than anywhere else in the
world up to 280 in an hour
on average people spend more than four
years of their lives eating the world's
longest commercial flight of the past
lasted almost 30 hours the double
sunrise service was operated by Qantas
and ran from Australia to Sri Lanka in
1943 to 1945 the flight got its nickname
because passengers could see the sunrise
twice people tend to second-guess
themselves when others disagree with
them even when they know they're right
the shortest commercial flight lasts
less than two minutes it connects to
neighbouring islands in Scotland moose
are great swimmers and this ability is
inborn the animals can swim at a speed
of 6 miles per hour and keep this pace
for up to two hours the largest
collection of Transformers memorabilia
includes 2111 unique items colorful neck
rias clouds appear extremely high in the
atmosphere
twice the commercial airplane cruising
altitude the air there is extremely dry
and cold the clouds look colored because
they contain ice crystals which scatter
live in Portsmouth a Victorian era fort
was turned into a luxury hotel with 23
rooms a night club hot tub laser Quest
Arena and a lighthouse penthouse suite
fingers don't have muscles of their own
all the muscles that move your finger
joints are located in your forearms and
palms people read longer lines faster
but they still prefer shorter ones not
that you should ever repeat it but the
fastest time to eat a bowl of pasta is
26.69 seconds cats regularly lick
themselves preventing skin oils from
gathering on their fur that's why when
cats get wet their coats become very
heavy and animals start freezing the
world's largest skateboard is twelve and
a half times bigger than its regular
version and longer than a London bus
people are the most creative in the
evening at around 10 p.m. and the least
creative in the late afternoon around
4:30 p.m. you're also more likely to get
a lot of fresh ideas while taking a
shower or right after the southern
cricket frog can jump incredibly high up
to sixty times their body length it's
like you leaping over a 38 story
building go ahead try it one of the
theories explaining why people yawn
claims that it's a way to show empathy
it helps people bond the Meghalaya
estate in India is the wettest area in
the world
it receives more than 467 inches of rain
per year it's almost enough water to
cover the Hollywood sign
Japanese railways are so punctual that
if a train runs more than five minutes
late passengers get delays certificates
these documents can be shown to teachers
or bosses to explain why somebody's late
your brain literally wants you to be
lazy because it knows that conserving
energy is a good thing lots of cheeses
have holes called eyes in them these
eyes are made by bacteria used in the
production process now contrary to
popular belief the Great Wall of China
isn't visible from space but it's still
great the biggest number of consecutive
pinky pull-ups is 36 people feel less
stressed when they know something bad is
going to happen then when they aren't
sure how things are going to work out
all together while visiting Idaho you
can stay in a B&B located inside a
12-foot tall beagle the inn is totally
pet friendly the longest flight in the
world is performed by Singapore Airlines
and connects Singapore and Newark the
whole journey lasts on average 18 hours
and 30 minutes the diameter of the Sun
is 10 times larger than that of Jupiter
at any given moment 50,000 cells in your
body are getting replaced by new ones
hey it's an upgrade
China stretches through five
geographical time zones but it follows
only Beijing Standard Time it means that
when it's five pm in the country's
capital it's the same time three
thousand miles away in China's Far West
your fingers and toes get all wrinkly
after you spend too much time in the
water so that it's easier for you to
grab wet objects a garbage can is never
more than 30 steps away from you in any
Disneyland Park and still they seem to
miss it rats are ticklish
if you stroke certain areas on a rodents
body it'll emit high pitch chirps
similar to human laughter even though it
seems times flying when you're having a
good time it's not so you're just more
likely to remember what you did in more
detail dogs can dream about their doggy
things like chasing pigeons or barking
at other pooches fresh rain falling down
on dry ground smells so nice thanks to
the mixture of ozone plant oils and
bacterial spores our solar system exists
inside the solar neighborhood these are
all stars not further than 15
light-years away from our Sun banana
paired with curry powder is a real and
rather popular pizza topping in Sweden
honey doesn't spoil it means you'll be
just fine
after eating three thousand-year-old
honey the first cars weren't equipped
with a steering wheel when a driver
needed to turn they used a special lever
turkeys can blush it happens when birds
are afraid annoyed sick or excited nano
robotics researchers in France have
built the world's tiniest house the
construction is so small that it
wouldn't fit a mite and still it has
seven windows a chimney and a tiled roof
finally the ocean isn't really blue the
water absorbs all colors from the red
part of the light spectrum which leaves
behind the blue-green color you can see
got all that
[Music]